(Opening Song, "over and over")
(ALULU roar) (slash)
(HELGA growling) (fire breath)
(ALULU chittering)
(HELGA growling)
(BIBI hissing)
(TROLL A laughing)
(RHETT chuckling)
[LIDO] Soup's on!
[LIDO] Grab a drink!
[LIDO] Pass 'em around!
[LIDO] Let's celebrate
in honor of
our newest companion and our
first surface-dwelling guests!
(XENOS celebrating)
(BELL awkward)
Am I dreaming this?
[LILI] I can always pinch
your cheeks to make sure...
(HELGA laughing)
(AUDE bashful)
(PIG XENOS annoyed)
So then... that's when
Bell swooped in to save me!
Is that so?
Would you say...
that he's odd? I mean uh...
he's a gentleman, right?
What's that supposed to mean...?
[LIDO] Bellcchi!
And why am I "Bellcchi"...?
[LIDO] Don't be shy.
Eat all you like!
We picked these not
far from here.
[LIDO] I hear they're
a rarity on the surface!
(BELL notice) (hesitant) (sniff)
(BELL bite) (surprise)
[BELL] That's tasty!
[LIDO] I know, right!
(LIDO happy)
[BELL] Listen... I'm sorry for
punching you so hard earlier.
[LIDO] No biggie! Gave
you quite a wallop, myself.
So, uh... Did you get those
weapons from an adventurer?
[LIDO] Yup. Treasures that
once belonged to an unsuspecting
person who attacked me.
[LIDO] Similar to the way your
kind collects claws and tusks
after defeating monsters, right?
[BELL] Well, I... suppose so.
[LIDO] Manmade weapons
are a thing of beauty!
[LIDO] Much sharper than the
plants that grow 'round these
parts. Sturdier, too.
[LIDO] I mean, nothing of
ours even comes close.
(BELL notice)
(EAGLE MONSTER notice)
(AUDE bashful)
(BELL happy)
[GLOS] Lido, put an end
to this foolish charade.
(LIDO question) (irritated)
[GLOS] As you know, these are
people that we're dealing with.
[GLOS] They don't
deserve our trust.
[LIDO] Are you still
on that, Glos?!
[LIDO] Bellcchi and his friends
protected Wiene the whole time.
Fels said so, remember?
[LIDO] In fact, the only reason
we had to rough 'em up like that
was 'cause you
weren't convinced.
(GLOS hmph)
(LIDO sigh)
[LIDO] Sorry 'bout him.
Some of the guys are
struggling to adjust.
We were all kinda nervous
when we heard that
surface-dwellers would
be visiting us.
[BELL] Oh it's fine...
Still, it should be
obvious to 'em by now
that you guys are different
from other adventurers.
(GLOS sigh)
(BELL notice)
Question! I was
wondering something...
The Guild knows that
you're down here, huh?
[LIDO] Uh-huh! They've been
pullin' some strings to keep
the truth about us hidden...
and sendin' food and
weapons every now and
then for a while...
(WELF & LILI shock)
[LIDO] Well, it's not so much
the Guild as a god named Uranus.
Most people who work for
the Guild don't know
anything about us.
[LILI] So then... our mission
to travel to the 20th Floor
was arranged by whom?
[LIDO] Proposed by Master
Uranus and his crew. We
agreed to lend a hand.
(WELF sigh)
[LIDO] "To discern the
potential" of the people
who would protect one of
our brethren, he said.
[WELF] Basically, the
head of the Guild was
testing all of us...
[LIDO] But y'know, after
hearin' about you guys...
I had high hopes.
[LIDO] Thought to myself, "The
winds of change are upon us..."
(BELL serious)
"Coexistence between
man and monster"...?
[HESTIA] Do you understand
the seriousness of what you're
saying, Uranus?!
[URANUS] Of course.
[HESTIA] Mankind and monsters
can't live in harmony.
It's been this way since the
days of yore. Despite that...
[URANUS] The Xenos are not apt
to attack on primal instinct.
They desire to have a dialogue.
(HESTIA question)
[URANUS] They plead their case
not with claws and fangs,
but through their
words and logic.
[URANUS] They wish
to walk the surface.
[URANUS] They want to know our
children... to know humanity.
[URANUS] These Xenos face
violence from other monsters.
Shunned and ostracized.
[URANUS] They belong nowhere,
not even in the Dungeon.
[URANUS] It is easy to dismiss
their plight because they are
monsters.
[URANUS] However, these
creatures possess hopes
and dreams, along with
a way to express them.
[URANUS] Just as our
own children do.
[URANUS] To deny their suffering
and exterminate them... would be
unforgivable.
(HESTIA sigh)
[HESTIA] You really plan on
making peace with monsters?
[URANUS] Indeed. But...
if we wish to unite them
with our children...
we must first determine
the reason for their existence.
[HESTIA] In other words,
prove to mankind that their
lives have meaning.
And you think that Bell and
the others can bridge the gap?
[URANUS] That is the hope.
(HESTIA distressed)
[HESTIA] I know how you feel...
but... if anyone found out...
my Familia would lose their
standing in this city for good.
[HESTIA] Just like the Xenos...
[URANUS] Of this, I am aware.
[URANUS] The decision was
mine and mine alone.
[HERMES] Gotcha... So
they caught on, huh?
[ASFI] Yes, my apologies.
[ASFI] Our presence was noticed.
That guy's got a keen eye,
doesn't he? Ikelos's child...
[ASFI] Dix Perdix,
also known as "Hazer."
[ASFI] Captain of the Familia...
He reached level 4 nearly ten
years ago.
[HERMES] What of the others?
They split up and fled...
We lost them on the way.
[ASFI] They could be back
on the surface by now...
[HERMES] I'd expect that they'll
make a move sometime soon.
[HERMES] Keep a close eye
on those middle floors.
[GRAN] (frustrated)
Bunch of bastards!
[GRAN] We should have stayed on
the Lil' Rookie's tail a lot
longer, Dix.
Then we would've located
their stupid nest!
[DIX] It is what it is.
Keeping the Hermes Familia
off our ass is top priority.
Damn that worthless god,
screwin' us over. Big time.
[MAN A] This could
be pretty bad...
[MAN A] If they caught wind of
our smuggling operation...
you can bet that the Guild will
get involved sooner or later.
[GRAN] What's our
next move, Dix?
[DIX] They didn't pick
a fight with us
so I assume that means
we have more firepower.
Y'know what... This is fun; how
am I s'pposed to stop now?
[DIX] The hunt is on...
[FELS] My, what a surprise.
[FELS] It would seem things have
taken an unexpected turn.
[LIDO] Fels, you came!
(BELL notice)
[BELL] Huh.. Fels?
[HESTIA] Aside from Hermes, are
my Familia and I the only ones
who know...
...about Wiene and the Xenos?
[URANUS] No. There is
one other. Ganesha.
[HESTIA] Ganesha?!
[GANESHA] I am... GANESHA!
[GANESHA] ...echo... echo...
echo... echo... echo...!
[HESTIA] (shock) Does that mean
the Monsterphilia was...?!
[URANUS] Precisely. In order
to curtail the public's
animosity towards monsters,
I enlisted Ganesha
to host the event.
[URANUS] To gain his
cooperation, I explained
the situation.
[HESTIA] Aa, you're kidding me?
That has to be the most bonkers
thing I've heard all day.
[URANUS] Despite his appearance,
he is not one to gossip.
[HESTIA] (question) Still, I'm
surprised the whole "unification
of mankind and monsters" thing
has been in the works
for so long...
[FELS] First, allow me to
introduce myself.
[FELS] My name is Fels. I serve
primarily as a point of contact
between Uranus and the
creatures known as Xenos.
[FELS] I was tasked
with monitoring your
behavior, including
that of the dragon girl.
(BELL gasp)
[BELL] So it was you...!
[LIDO] Fels has eyes almost
everywhere.
[LIDO] Cause of these things,
we can get in touch whenever we
want.
[LILI] Hey Master Fels... Does
that make you a monster as well?
[LIDO] Nope! Fels is human.
[FELS] Formerly human,
to be precise.
[BELL] Huh?
[FELS] Allow me to show you...
(BOTH scared)
[WELF] Whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa!
[BELL] A spartoi monster?!
[FELS] As I said...
I am formerly human.
[BELL] But what does
that mean exactly?
[LIDO] Fels is the Sage! A
magician of unimaginable power!
[LILI] Creator of the
Philosopher's Stone from
the Kingdom of Magic?!
[LILI] The only person to
uncover the secret to
freaking eternal life?!
[LILI] That Sage?!
[LIDO] Y-yeah...
That's probably... the one...?
(LILI awe)
[FELS] I am the remnants
of an individual
once known as "The Sage."
[FELS] In my pursuit of
knowledge,
I became obsessed with the
thought of eternal life.
[FELS] Despite crafting a
formula for immortality and
regeneration, I was reduced
to a living ghost.
[FELS] Nowadays, I
go by "Fels the Fool."
[FELS] Under Uranus'
supervision,
I observe each generation
as it evolves.
[FELS] 15 years have passed
since my first encounter with
Lido and his comrades.
[FELS] We decided to call them
"Xenos," and they formed a
community under that name.
[FELS] An organization that
allows creatures born of the
Dungeon
to function as a group and
provide protection to their
"brethren."
[REI] Ever since then...
we've been living together
and traveling as a group...
to avoid being detected by
the aggressive monsters of
the Dungeon...
...remaining on the lookout
for new companions.
[LILI] If you live together...
...then does that mean monsters
don't spawn in this area?
[LIDO] (realize) How very
observant of you, Lilicchi!
[LILI] Don't call me that.
Adventurers haven't discovered
this room so it's considered
uncharted territory.
Plus, it's a safe point
where monsters won't spawn.
[LIDO] We call this place...
our "hidden village."
[FELS] Dozens of these rooms are
scattered across the Dungeon.
[BELL] That's really
interesting.
(FELS affirmative)
[FELS] Approximately 40 Xenos
are before you.
[FELS] Of those... Lido, Rei,
and Glos are the oldest members.
(GLOS hmph)
[WELF] So... does that
make you the leader?
[LIDO] Yup. And you're looking
at the strongest Xenos, right
here!
[LIDO] Well, that's
what I'd like to say...
Sadly, I got my ass handed to me
by one of our newest recruits
the other day...
[WELF] Seriously?
[LIDO] Y-...yeah...
He's trekkin' through the deep
floors by himself as we speak...
[LIDO] Even says he ain't comin'
back until he's totally
shredded! (distressed)
(WELF nervous laugh)
[LILI] But Master Fels...
[LILI] I can't help but wonder
why you agreed to help the Xenos
in the first place?
[LILI] Given their place in
society, there's no logical
explanation.
[LILI] It may be dangerous...
but they seem capable of
surviving here.
Why are they relying on you?
What exactly are
the Xenos after?
[REI] A life on the surface.
(WELF surprise)
That is our only desire.
(LIDO somber)
[LIDO] I have this dream...
[LIDO] There are these enormous
cliffs in the distance
and a red light
sinking beneath them.
[LIDO] An alien sky that
drenches the world in red,
bright enough to bring
tears to my eyes...
[BELL] That sounds
like a sunset.
[WELF] Have you ever
been on the surface?
[LIDO] No... Never.
[LIDO] But somehow I feel...
...maybe in a past life, I lived
somewhere... somewhere I could
see the sky.
[LILI] "A past life"...?
(LIDO sigh)
[LIDO] Bellcchi...
[LIDO] Wiene picked up
the human language
pretty quickly, right?
[BELL] Huh? yeah.
[LIDO] Some of our
kind are capable
of learning your speech
patterns, while others are not.
[LIDO] For some reason, those of
us who can speak pick up the
language almost instantly.
[LIDO] In a way, it kinda seems
like we're remembering something
from a long time ago...
(BELL gasp)
[WIENE] My body gets colder...
[WIENE] I feel empty inside,
like there's a hole in my
chest...
[WIENE] And those people, they
look so beautiful...
(BELL shock)
[FELS] An intense longing...
[FELS] Each Xenos possesses
their own thoughts and feelings.
[FELS] However, the one thing
they share is a strong sense of
yearning towards mankind and the
surface.
[LIDO] I'm itching to see that
sunset... Bet it's amazing.
[REI] I would like to glide
around in a world filled with
bright light.
[REI] My wings have made
it difficult to hold my
loved ones closely...
I've always wished to know
the feeling of being embraced.
[LIDO] We're well aware of the
fact that we're outcasts.
[LIDO] We're hated by man and
monster alike, stuck somewhere
in between...
[LIDO] Y'know, I can't help but
think that Mother built these
rooms and tucked 'em away for us
as a sort of safe haven.
[WELF] Your "Mother"...?
[REI] The Dungeon from
which we were born.
[REI] Our own kind
show us aggression...
and they threaten our lives.
[REI] Yet at the same time...
it is according to
the Mother Dungeon's will
that we are permitted to exist.
[REI] It's the life
we've come to know.
[LIDO] So y'see, that's why we
were so stoked to meet you folks
today!
[LIDO] And it's not 'cause
we expect you to help us or
anything like that...
[LIDO] Just knowing that there
are surface-dwellers who're
willing to accept us for who we
are...
(LIDO happy)
[LIDO] I'm so glad we
met you and your friends!
(LIDO happy)
[HESTIA] Uranus... If I may,
can I please ask
one last question?
[URANUS] Of course.
[HESTIA] Is there something
going on in the Dungeon?
Do you have any idea why these
Xenos are spawning?
[URANUS] What do you think
happens to monsters after
they die?
[HESTIA] Excuse me...?!
[URANUS] The souls of our
children return to Heaven...
then are granted life
anew in the Lower World.
[URANUS] Given this precedent,
where would a monster's soul go?
[HESTIA] No idea.
[URANUS] Monsters' souls return
to the Mother Dungeon.
There, they are given new
form and are reborn deep
within its walls.
[HESTIA] The monsters
get reincarnated?!
[URANUS] It is merely
conjecture... but I am
convinced it holds merit.
[URANUS] After being reborn
countless times over the
course of millennia...
[URANUS] ...the weight of the
desires and regrets has begun
to transform their souls.
[HESTIA] But how?!
Perhaps it is the monsters'
sense of longing...
or perhaps... it is according
to the Dungeon's design.
[REI] I'd like to thank you from
the bottom of my heart.
[REI] I'm so glad that we met.
[BELL] Yeah... Same goes for me.
[LIDO] Bellcchi... do
you know what this is?
[BELL] Yeah It's a monster's
magic stone, isn't it?
(LIDO down the hatch) (munch)
[LIDO] The other monsters attack
us. They see us the same way
they see all of you.
[LIDO] So like you, we gotta
kill 'em in order to survive.
(LIDO swallow) (satisfied)
[LIDO] Munchin' their magic
stones gives us a boost by
enhancing our natural strength.
What I'm gettin' at is,
don't shy away from
killin' monsters.
[LIDO] Don't let your concern
for us cloud your judgement.
[LIDO] If you hesitate,
it could cost you your life.
(ALL serious)
(LIDO happy)
Stay alive, y'hear?
[LIDO] I wanna see ya' again.
(BELL happy)
(WIENE happy)
[WIENE] Hey, Bell! Wasn't that
fun? (giggling)
[WIENE] Let's head
back home now!
[LIDO] You're comin'
with us, Wiene.
(WIENE surprised)
[WIENE] Stop! Put
me down! (squirming)
(LIDO being beaten)
[LIDO] No can do! You belong
with your own kind!
[WIENE] (struggling) I don't
wanna! I'd rather be with Bell!
(BELL sad)
[LIDO] If you stay with Bellcchi
and his friends, you're gonna
make 'em cry!
[WIENE] Let go of me! (struggle)
(WIENE shock)
[REI] Y'know how scary stuff
happened to you above?
If we aren't careful... The same
things could happen to Bell and
his friends...
(WIENE notice)
[LIDO] The surface isn't a safe
place for us right now.
[LIDO] But in the Dungeon, no
one will ever hurt you here.
[LIDO] This is where we going to
live. Together. From now on.
(WIENE tiny whimper)
[WIENE] But Bell... I....
(LIDO happy)
[LIDO] Catch ya later, Bellcchi.
(WIENE crying)
[WIENE] Bell! Bell!
[WIENE] Bell!
[BELL] It's not goodbye!
[BELL] I'll be back to see you!
[WIENE] Bell!
(HESTIA notice)
[BELL] We're back safe...
[HESTIA] Welcome back, Bell...
Hey, guys...
[BELL] Goddess...
[BELL] What is the
Dungeon anyway?
The Dungeon's the Dungeon,
silly...
[FIA] It's about time
to head out... Wiene.
[WIENE] Kay...
[LANIER] Pick up
the pace, Wiene.
(BOTH notice)
[LANIER] You'll make us late
for our rendezvous with the
advance party.
[WIENE] I'm sorry...
(FAU playful growling)
(WIENE smooshed)
[WIENE] Thank you a bunch...
Fau.
(FAU affirmative)
[LANIER] Quit dawdling!
(ALL startled)
[LANIER] Anything can happen
so until we arrive at
the new village...
we must remain focused
on the task at hand.
[FIA] Right!
(FAU affirmative)
(WIENE deep breath)
[WIENE] How come we have
to move? Did someone find
the village?
[LANIER] Relocating's a
preventative measure that
reduces the chance of an ambush.
[FIA] Plus, if we stay in
one spot for too long,
the food supply runs
out after a while.
[WIENE] Oh...
[WIENE] Mikoto's cooking....
was tasty...
[FIA] I wouldn't worry
if I were you.
[FIA] I'm positive
that you'll see Mr. Bell
and the other surface-dwellers
again soon.
[WIENE] Yeah...
[LANIER] You have
to let them go.
[LANIER] Forget about those
wretched humans!
[LANIER] Wiene, they'll cause
you nothing but trouble.
(WIENE sad)
[WIENE] Lanier...,
why do you hate
people like Bell?
[WIENE] Their Familia and even
their goddess was nice to me!
[LANIER] Their kindness was no
more than a passing fancy!
[LANIER] You're far too naive!
[LANIER] You know nothing of
mankind's cruelty and deceit!
(mystical noise)
(WIENE gasp)
[FIA] Wiene...?
(FAU inquisitive)
[WIENE] I can hear...
someone crying...
[WIENE] They're
saying "Save me!"
[LANIER] One of our brethren?
[WIENE] Yes...
[WIENE] She's in so much pain...
[WIENE] If we don't help her
soon...!
(FIA surprised)
[FIA] What should we do,
Lanier?!
[LANIER] Sounds like
there's no time to waste.
[LANIER] Let's move!
(SIREN A screaming/pain)
[WIENE] It's close... so close.
[LANIER] She's right. I can hear
it, too.
[LANIER] Glos, do you read me?
We're on our way to recover a
new comrade.
[LANIER] Stand by at
the rendezvous point.
[GLOS] Wait, Lanier! It's
too dangerous to go alone.
[GLOS] I'll send backup!
(SIREN A screaming / pain)
(WIENE distressed)
[LANIER] The torment in her
voice... We can't afford to
wait!
[GLOS] Stand down, Lanier!
[GLOS] It could be a trap.
(WIENE shock)
(SIREN A pain)
[SIREN A] Run... run away...
(WIENE shock)
(LANIER shock)
[DIX] Well, would you look
at that...
Monsters can cry.
(jump)
(DIX amused)
[LANIER] Adventurers!
[FIA] An ambush!
(WIENE gasp)
[DIX] All according to
my ingenious plan.
I heard that Vouivres
have some good ears...
and it looks like a squawkin'
siren was the perfect lure.
[LANIER] You bastards...!
(GRAN slash)
(AUDE pain, die)
[LANIER] Aude!
Gran, you moron...
We could've made ourselves a
nice chunk of change from that
thing?
[GRAN] I got carried
away... My bad.
[DIX] There's fewer of them than
I thought... Disappointing.
I guess there's no need to
break out the big guns.
(LANIER angry)
[DIX] Alright... Let's dance.
(Ending Song, "Evergreen")
[HESTIA] Next time:
"Ikelos Familia."